- municipal support is beneficial but coops can't rely on it (at least in the begginning when the benefits are not well understood by stakeholders)
- clear procedures and professional services make baugruppen model successful - in Poland its mostly trailblazers and there are not established service offer for cooperatives. - successful german project have assistance from professionals (AREA, Baugruppe Architect)
- a tested procedure is 4 stages (interest community, planning community, building community, ownership community). Polish project try to get everything right in one go (everything community), which makes it way harder. Since some people are naturally more involved, while others prefer a ready-solution it makes sense to involve them at different stages. In most extreme scenario a group of 3 (the least amount of people needed for a coop), can go through the interest and planning process - buy land, design, get permit - an onboard additional members already for the building community stage. This will also limit the risk of member turnover. Clear procedures address and mitigate perceived risks from the beginning.
- coop is better when it is targeted at people who cannot be easily served by a developer (eg. young urban families), Gdynia was people who didnt get a better space because of the coop, but they got a place to live where they couldnt afford any to buy beforhand. 
- instead of competing with developers for land, it's best when coops go for underapreciated land where the competition is lower. This can be either a plot that is small enough (or zoned low) that it won't be economically viable for a developer and big enough (or zoned high) that it will be out of reach for individual investors; or a plot in a location that is not considered prime development area - think urban infills, redevelopment in early phases, urban renewal areas. Both Gdynia and Wrocław projects were developed in areas that are under a lot of developer-led construction. Gdynia succeeded because the plot size and shape was very unattractive for a developer. Wrocław succeeded because the municipality set aside land to be sold only to cooperatives. In lack of such a policy, a coop project should rather target specific sites such as K20's urban infill site.
- polish project should specifically use the provisions of Act on housing cooperatives. Easier access to municipal land is conditional on the eagerness of the municipality. But municipality may be more eager if there is something in it for them. For example coop may be able to pay back for the plot in apartments or commercial area
- Gdynia was purely an economic project - in that sense it was very successful. But also they missed out on the big benefits of a coop - the ability to afford luxuries because of collective purchasing power. The lack of common ares, also meant that it is harder to realize satisfaction gains from living in a great community. A good coop should aim to realize this benefit. On the other hand project has to be wary of scope creep - if the cooperative becomes more expensive then developer it stops to make sense.
- also - how the coop will evolve is unkown prior to development. So it should stay flexible - eg. if the participants dont go along, they should be able to mind their business. But if the participants are happy to do more cohousing - the project should be able to accomodate that.
- branding is important - projects dont' attract if they feel too much like spółdzielnia. It also has to be branded as very beneficial to the city. As having the city on board is shown to make the process much easier.
- financing is a major hurdle but it is out of scope for this thesis. However a detail cost analysis can be beneficial to aid in financing 

General objective is a 2nd wave project - not only innovative, but also desirable. Like first there was Prius that competed with hummer, but only Tesla made it sexy to own an electric car.